

The [Web API Confluence Dashboard](http://web-confluence.appspot.com/#!/) provides metrics and support data about web platform features across multiple browsers. The MDN Browser Compatibility Database provides a command for using Confluence to generate new and updated JSON files. This page explains how to do this.

# Limitations

Although it is a useful and, to date, the most automated source of web platform compatibility data, it has limitations you must understand before using it as a source for generating pull requests. Those limitations are described below.

## Only Prototype-Exposed Data is Available

The dashboard derives its data from the JavaScript object graph on a sample page loaded in each browser. For example, an own property named `URL` on `Document.prototype` implies the `Document` interface has a member named `URL`. For various reasons, not all APIs are exposed on JavaScript prototypes, even when the API is available in the browser.

## Only Desktop Data is Available

This means that non-desktop data must be set by hand. For example a page generated by Confluence will only contain values for Chrome desktop (labeled `chrome` in the JSON files). The values supplied for Chrome must be manually copied to the fields named `chrome_android` and `webview_android`.

# Using the Confluence Command

## Prerequisites

1. If you have not already done so, enter the root of your clone of the repo, install the dependencies.

  `npm install`

2.

## Specifying Interfaces



```shell
# Load confluence data for ServiceWorker
npm run confluence -- --interfaces=ServiceWorker

# Fill in missing/ambiguous Firefox data on known interfaces
npm run confluence -- --browsers=firefox --fill-only

# Print documentation on full list of options
npm run confluence -- --help
```
